~~NOTOC~~
======About Cognifty Templates======

Tempaltes  in Cognifty are complete (X)/HTML files.  Inside the template there are certain 
places where you want content to show up.  Whever you want dynamic content you place 
specific **PHP functions**.

=======Convert an Existing Template=======

We can use an existing open source template to show the steps involved in creating a new template.

Start by downloading the template "Delicious Fruit" from **oswd.org** (http://www.oswd.org/design/preview/id/3691).

Create a new directory under __templates__, call it "**fruit01**".

  (installation_home)/
            cognifty/
            media
            templates/
                   refresh01/
                   admin01/
                   fruit01/


===Change your configuration===

Update your installation by changing the **template.ini** file under boot/local/.  If there is 
not a file called **template.ini**, create a new one and make sure it looks like the following
  
  [config]
  default.name=fruit01
  site.name=Your Site Name
  site.tagline=""
  use.rewrite=false
  copyright.name=Mark Kimsal
  ssl.port=443

The important value to change is the **default.name** value.




===Rename template files===

This particular template only comes with one layout.  Some templates will have a base "index" layout, and 
other layouts; for example: one-column.html, two-column.html.

For each **.html** file, rename it to **.html.php**.  Your directory should look like this.


  fruit01/
        images/
        index.html.php
        style.css


===Update URLs===

If you refresh your browser, you should see a very broken web page.  This is because most templates start with 
//relative// URLs for every link.  We need to make them //absolute// URLs to work with a framework.

In cognifty, we can easily create //absolute// URLs by adding the PHP tag 

 <?=cgn_templateurl();?>

in front of any stylesheet or image which is part of the currently used template.

In our //fruit01// example, we simply replace the top style sheet reference of:
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
with:
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="<?=cgn_templateurl();?>style.css" />


===Content.Main===

If you refresh your browser on your Cognifty installation, you should see your downloaded template 
displaying properly.  The only problem is that, it doesn't have your content in it.

The way we display content in Cognifty is by using **template sections**.  The main part of any page 
is called '//content.main//'.  To display content.main, find the part in the template which starts 
showing content.   Delete or comment-out the templates sample content and add the following line:

  <? Cgn_Template::parseTemplateSection('content.main');?>

In our //fruit01// example, this is right after the <div id="right"> tag around line 76.  Keep the 
matching close div tag around line 110 and clear out everythign in between.


====Titles and Headers====
The last step which is required for general template setup is changing the page titles.
In cognifty we have two titles to work with, the **site name** and the **page title**.  The 
site name doesn't change on each page, but the page title does.  In some sites, it is common to 
place the site's name after the page title so a user can easily recognize which site the 
page is from just by looking at the window title.

Here are the tags related to page titles and site names.

  <title><?php echo Cgn_Template::getPageTitle();?> :: <?php echo Cgn_Template::siteName();?></title>

====Final Checklist====

If your template made generous use of CSS styling, then any cognifty page will probably look pretty 
good in your new template.  But, there might be some cases where you need to override the 
HTML structure of a default page in Cognifty.  To do that, look at the "Overriding Modules" guide.
