~~NOTOC~~
======About Cognifty Modules======

Cognifty modules borrow some ideas from Java® Servlets, but they don't jump ship to the 
entire Java® world.  Cognfity modules and services stand on their own as a proven way to
organize your code.  This style of module has been adopted and adapted by Code Igniter, 
Zend Framework, and applications like Magento.

=====What is a Module?=====

A module in Cognifty is a collection of //services//.  Services are class files
that extend **Cgn_Service**.  These services can be thought of as Java ®  Servlets, but 
with a PHP flair.  A lot of systems blindly copy Java APIs method for method, with 
no consideraition for PHP's "shared nothing" approach to serving Web requests.

=====The Main Service=====

The default words for all //module//, //service// and //event// settings are "main".
By default, the system will look for a module folder called "main", a service file called 
"main.php", a classname called "Cgn_Service_Main_Main" and a method event called "mainEvent".

====The Service Class====

The //main// class service, again, is called "Cgn_Service_Main_Main" and it extends a base
Cognifty service class of "Cgn_Service" ("Cgn_Service_Trusted", for spam filtering).
Below is the strucutre of the //tutorial// module which shows the text of this tutorial.

<code php>
<?php
class Cgn_Service_Tutorial_Main extends Cgn_Service {

	function mainEvent(&$req, &$t) {
	}
}
</code>

=====Events=====

Events are triggered by Web activity from an end-user.  Events can loosely by associated with 
events that are triggered in Javascript, or traditional GUI frameworks when widgets are clicked 
by the mouse.

An event in cognifty is one class method with the word "Event" appended to it.  This avoids any 
potently holes with running untrusted class methods (from a parent class) via URL exploits.

Web requests to Cognifty go through a process of "ticketing" to determine which M/S/E to execute.
One URL can run many M/S/E or just one.

====Flagging====

Cognifty services and events use the concept of "flagging" over explict code execution.  This allows for 
very flexible codeing without adding much overhead.  Your event should be the entirety of your 
business logic for one request.  Some frameworks **require** you to execute the output portion of 
the request cycle (the "V" in MVC) in your business logic.  

A typical MVC-style PHP Framwork:
<code php>
function someAction() {
    $this->loadLayout();
    //code snippped
    if($this->getRequest()->getParam('changepass')==1){
        $customer->setChangePassword(1);
    }
    //code snippped
    $this->renderLayout();
}
</code>

Not only does constantly calling //renderLayout// become redundant code, it doesn't allow you to easily 
change the code //en-masse//, thus leading to stiff and non-reusable code.

Cognifty defaults to running a specified set of routines for all service events after the event is 
finished.  If you want a different sort of output, all you have to do is set a "flag".  Setting flags 
doesn't **force** the system to behave in a specified way, it simply **urges** the system to do so, allowing 
room for massive, non-breaking changes in the late life-cycle of the application.

Cognifty's approach of "everything is a flag":
<code php>
function loginRun(&$req, &$t) {
    //codesnipped
    if ($redir != '' ) {
        $this->presenter = 'redirect';
        $t['url'] = $redir;
    } 
}
</code>

This code shows how the output layer, the "presenter", can be used to send 301 redirects to the client 
just as it would be used to render HTML output.  The following is a list of pre-defined presentation 
directive flags:

  * default  (parses HTML templates)
  * redirect (redirects the users, saves session messages)
  * native   (calls $service->output on your own service)


======Cognifty Module Example======

To create a new module, simply create a new directory under the "cognifty/modules" 
directory.  For this example we will make a new module which simply says "Hello, World!".

Start by making a new folder under "cognifty/modules/" called "//hello//".  Create a 
new php file under //hello// called "main.php".

<code>
INSTALLATION-ROOT /
		cognifty
			modules/
				hello/
					main.php
				
</code>

Inside the //main.php// file, paste the following code.

<code php>
<?php
class Cgn_Service_Hello_Main extends Cgn_Service {

      public function mainEvent(&$req, &$t) {
          $t['message'] = "Hello, World!";
      }

}
</code>
 
That's all you need to do for the first step.  You should now be able to see "Hello, World!" on 
your site at the following URL:

  http://example.com/cognifty/index.php/hello/

The index.php is optional, you can turn it off by copying the "README.htaccess.txt" file to ".htaccess" in 
your base cognifty directory and settting the "use.rewrite" value to //TRUE// in boot/local/template.ini

